# adhocracy
## The individual matters (most)

We live in a world where bureaucracy dominates.  It dominates our schools, our jobs, our government.  Hell, it often dominates our neighborhoods and local social groups.  Bureaucracy begets bureaucracy.  Administration begets administration.  When those that do just do, they let administrators administrate.  Doers make the case that fewer doers are needed because they are constantly improving how much a single doer can do.  Doers don't worry about the next doer, that doer can handle themselves if they are a good doer.  That's what doers do.  There is always more doing to be done.  Always.  And that's what doers want.  The next challenge that needs doing.  

Administrators administrate.  There is no incentive to reduce administration.  Ask yourself the last time you saw an administrative position who's main indicator was to reduce the requirements of their own administrativeness?  It's absurd when you think about it.  The fact that we have let this happen.  And continue to let it happen.  It's someone else problem, right?  If I'm a doer, I'm sitting here doing, and doing as well as I can do.  The administrators are administrating.  Administrators watch doers.  How often do doers watch administrators?  How often does a doer really need watching?  How often were doers of 40 years ago watched by administrators?  Were those doers more trustworthy?

I know this sounds like a cranky, disaffected wannabe doer just complaining.  I've written this many times in my head and then told myself, I'm just a whiny bitch, get back to doing (or thinking I'm doing).  But that doesn't change the landscape, it doesn't reduce the slow, inevitable ratchet pawl of administration.  Like an almost imperceptibly oozing drop of pitch, it never appears to be moving when you are looking at it.  But sure enough, you wait a few weeks, months, years and holy shit, everything has changed.  Our ability to do has been encroached upon.  Doing requires freedom.  Freedom is unambiguous.  I don't mean freedom from constraints.  Doers always work under constraints.  Be they tolerances, laws of physics, even regulations (yes, some are actually needed), doers must account for the constraints.  Questioning them is required, not something to be avoided.  Questioned, but still respected.  But constraints are constraints.  Those that are required, must be taken into account.  How often has an administrator applied a constraint on an administrator?  "Hey you, your next administrative action must have 7.3% less administrativeness."  Absurd.  Even typing that makes me chuckle.  Administration is costly, it requires man hours, it requires salary, even if just for the source of the administration.

The administrator abhors the individual.  Administration requires a group to administrate.  It is much more difficult to administrate an individual.  This great nation was built by individuals.  Brilliant, brave and hard working individuals from all walks of life.  If this feels like a hot take, you may be an administrator.  Might have been a doer at one point, but administration begets administration and often doers are pulled from doing and into administration.  It is alluring.  You know how to do, you have done.  Now you can oversee doers.  You know how they should do.  If you were a good doer, you would still be doing, not watching doers do.  Less money, less power, yes.  But a doer you would have remained.  What was the last thing you made?  Actually created from nothing?  Built with your bare hands?  With hand tools? Or the aid of a machine, servos and ball-screws or silicon or both?  

Administrators need doers.  Without doers, what would administrators administrate?  Doers don't need administrators.  Doers need freedom.  Administrators don't need freedom; they need less freedom.  One must only look at this relationship and question why administration has grown (exponentially?) while doers remain flat.  Why are the incentives so lopsided?  Why do administrators multiply?  Do the doers require more watching?  Do the administrators know something the doers don't?  If it is strictly the dollar, then where does that dollar come from?  It can't come from the administrators, they don't actually do, they don't actually make.  We must look at the incentives.  As a group, people don't do things for free.  Some do, and companies and society at large generally benefit greatly.  So, we are left with an average that needs incentives.  For better or (mostly) worse, the most powerful incentive today is the dollar.  If I can make more dollars by doing less, then why the hell wouldn't I.  And if doing less means watching doers do, why wouldn't I do that?  And what other administrator is going to question how well I'm watching my doers?  When they don't want their watching of their doers questioned either?  We end up building a hierarchy of administrators.  Administrators who know that reaching the next branch up the tree of administration would only be hindered by questioning anyone else's administrativeness.

To escape this cycle, two things must happen.  Many more should happen, but these two must.  Improve the incentives for doers and reduce the incentives for administrators.  How do we do this?  To be honest, I don't know.  We may be too far gone in most large corporations.  The government being the largest corporation of all, and also the one with a monopoly on force.  Look at startups.  How many start with administration?  It sneaks in later, once the hard doing is done.  Let doers do.  Instead of watching doers from above, clear the path for them.

If you've read this far, thank you for your time and attention.  Most will assume themselves on one side of the doer/administrator divide.  The only way to know for sure is to ask a real doer.

DISCUSS!

